# Quality Checking (QC)
- The quality of the `Illumina platform` is good, but still prone to perform errors in sequencing, especially towards the end of reads (in both the forward and reverse strands). Therefore, it is important to perform QC to remove `low quality` sequences, and to truncate sequences when they drop below a specified `quality score`.
- Our sample dilutions were "excellent", with Qubit reads at 0.241 ng/uL. However, high sequencing reads were not generated to the fullest capacity. We had a slight under-clustering (probably related to using a foreign machine). 8.6M read pairs were generated with high quality (~91% of bases >Q30).
- The `Phred quality score` is a measure of accuracy for a base in a sequence; it indicates the probability that a base call is correct. A `Phred score` of 30 = probability of a correct `base call` is `99.9%` for a certain position. Hence, an average of >Q30 = very good quality.
- Therefore, our sequences were of generally high quality.

## Chimeras
- Chimeric sequences are formed during `PCR`, and this is when sequences from >2 biological sequences are joined together. This is rare in `shotgun sequencing`, but common in Illumina 16S rRNA gene `amplicon sequencing` when closely related sequences are amplified. The majority of `chimeras` are thought to rise from incomplete extension; whereby a `partially extended strand` can `bind` to a `template` derived from a different but similar sequence. Therefore, this can act as a `primer` that is then extended to form a `chimeric sequence`.
- In `16S sequencing` only a small fraction of reads are chimeric (~1-5%). But, when the reads are clustered into `OTUs`, a much larger fraction are `chimeric`. It turns out it's almost impossible to distinguish between `chimeras` and true sequences (even with no sequencing errors and a complete reference database). This is because of `fake models`; when a `"correct sequence"` can be constructed as a `chimera` from two other `correct sequences`.
- So `chimeric sequences` are a problem in `16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing`. However, I have chosen not to remove chimeric sequences in my dataset because (1) it is very difficult to determine what is and is not a `chimeric sequence`, hence I find the algorithms utilised by various software stating otherwise questionable; (2) I do not want to get rid of sequences that may be `true OTUs`; (3) a couple of students have ran chimeric checking and it was found to have only removed 80 sequences.
